Welcome back and in this lesson we're going to look at arithmetic operators so basically they're going
to give us the ability to polarize some arithmetic on numbers.
So this is only working with numbers in the previous lesson.
We saw that if we had a number of strings that we could actually combine them together so we could set
up a variable to call it my string and we're going to equal that to a.
And then we're going to equal space.
So Plus that one so there's another string.
And then lastly let's DO B.
So we know that the value of my strings when I go back and if I refresh it and if I want to get the
value of my stream it's going to be a concatenated with space concatenated with B.
So this is how we can add strings together but we can also use operators such as the plus sign to add
numbers together.
So if we do something like this so I call it my total and I'm going to equal this to five plus five.
So now that we've got a couple of numbers there and when I refreshed this and if I want the value for
my total I can see that it's 10.
So this is the same thing that if we go out into the con. We do six plus six.
We can do four plus six and we see that it does the computation we can even string a number of views
together and we can even have some larger numbers.
We can have some decimal places and so on we can even have a really long numbers.
So basically it's going to return back whatever that computed result is from all of these together.
Now it does work as well within the order of operations.
So basically if I had
five plus five and then I multiply with five.
So let me show you how that works.
So you get so we get my total and we see that five plus five.
So let's take in the order where we're doing multiplication division first and then we're doing addition
and subtraction.
So what's happening here is we're doing five times five.
So we're getting 25.
And then we're adding 5 to it.
And if for instance we want to do five plus five first then we can add in the brackets.
I could do five plus five.
And then here is where I'm going to multiply it by five.
So what do you think the total here is going to be.
And if you said 50 you are correct because we're taking whatever is within the brackets first and then
we're doing the multiplication.
We're doing the stuff outside of the brackets afterwards.
That's where the multiplication is actually done.
After the addition or subtraction.
So just as we were doing five plus five we could do nine minus five and so on and so on.
So think you got the point here that we can do any number of arithmetic we can do multiplication.
We can also do divisions of want to do nine divided by three so we used that forward slash and not to
be confused with the backward slash we use forward slash.
And this is where we can get the total.
So we can work out any type of value here and we can construct total and get that response turned back
in here and we could just as easily set up these as variables.
So if we had a he calls 5 we have variable b equals 10.
If we do a plus b
A plus B then my total is going to be and we're going to actually put this within the console's going
into the con. line so that it will have to always type it out there.
We're going to console log whatever the value of the total is when we go back to refresh the page and
we see we've got 15 coming in there.
So there are some other ones that you might not be as familiar with.
And another one that's commonly used within javascript is called modulus.
So that's m u m o d u l u s and this is the percentage line.
And basically what this does is this returns the remainder.
So we try to put a into B as many times as we can.
And then whatever the remainder is then that's what's going to get output there.
So let's try this out and we'll refresh the page.
So we get a total of five
because we're trying to put that smaller number into the bigger number so it's going to go out one time.
So typically when we're doing this we do something like this where we're going to reverse it and we're
going to have the bigger number with the smaller number going in there and we see that the total is
1.
So basically we're trying to fit a B as many times as possible and then whatever rubbings.
So if I change this to three what do you think the output now is going to be for my total.
And if you said 3 you're correct because we can fit 5 in there twice to be twice.
And then we get a remainder of three.
So five minus 13 is eight eight minus five is three.
And that's where get in that total of what's left over.
We can also increment numbers so we could do another one here where we can increment B and I can also
decrement a.
So we're subtracting one off of that and I'm going to put all those values out so we can see what the
values are of B at this point.
And this is a good use for a console log whenever we've got any values of variables that are changing
that we want to see what it is before the change and then we want to see what the value is after the
change.
Let's go out and refresh it.
So we see that be coming into this line of code line 13 gets a result of 13 because that's what the
variable is initially set to be incremented increment is just by 1 by increment of 1.
So next we print out B again and we see that it's 14 now.
So now we're looking at the value of B which is 14 and we've got a value of a which is no longer 5 because
we're subtracting off of it.
So the value of a now is four.
So we're doing 14 modulus 4.
So 4 goes in to 14 three full times and leaving two left over.
And this is also very useful if we're detecting if a value is odd or even.
So we can do something like this.
And if we have a value of zero.
We know that the number is even if we have a value of them is going to change that to 12 so that we
get a value of 13 and if we get our direct return of one on the modulus we know that the number is odd.
So this is one of the uses that is commonly done for modulus and this is how we change determining if
our role for instance that we're outputting is odd or even.
And there's a number of other uses for this as well.
So what I want you to do now is open up your editor and start adding in some numbers there.
So create a number of variables that have number of values there.
And set those up and create an addition of those.
Also a subtraction and so on.
And lastly let's take what we learned in the previous lesson with prompt and let's ask for a first value
and then we're going to add that to a second value which we're going to ask for as well.
And then lastly let's output that total into the alert.
So tripods in the video now and I can assure you the solution to do that.
Taking in what we've learned within this lesson the previous lesson and also the solution coming up.
So Pozza video.
Try it out for yourself.
And I'm going to give you the solution in just a minute.
So we had the opportunity to try this out for yourself.
And let's take what we learned in the previous lesson and I'm going to overwrite some of the content
that I have here.
I'm going to just use the prompt and I and I just to first number that the user wants to use and next
will do prompt again for B.
And then this will be second number.
And I can get rid of some of the stuff here.
So the total is going to be a plus b
to a plus b as a console log.
Let's just alert this information.
So Alerta total.
So let's let's try the soda and I don't need the string part up here so I can get rid of that.
And let's open up her browser refresh the page and we'll try that.
So the first lady asked us for our first number let's pick a number do for second number six.
And then we see that the total is 46.
And this was a trick question because we know that we're taking in prompts or treating in strange values
so we're not actually taking in numeric values.
And basically what that means is that we do need to change that type because if we do type of and if
we do a we know that OK there if we do take type of a we see that it's a string and we actually have
to convert string to a number.
And there's a number of ways to do that.
And the easiest one is just to specify that a is a number.
And now if we do type of a and actually I have to set a two equal number.
A.
And now let's try this type of.
And we see that we're getting back a number.
So now I'm able to add so I have to convert do the same thing for B.
So I would have to do B equals number and we need to convert B into a number.
And let me add that equal sign in there.
So B.
And now I can do a plus b and we see that we get the result that we're looking for.
So there's a number of ways to apply this and I just going to apply it here when we're creating our
total here.
So we're going to do a number a number B
and save those numbers.
Let's try that and refresh.
So first number is 3.
Second number is 7 and we see that we get a total of 10.
And let's also add in total of
total of 10.
So do try that for yourself.
And remember if you are working with numbers you do need to make sure that that type is a number.
So taking in what we learned earlier that all the prompts are returning it back as strings.
So we need to convert it to a number.
So use this type of method built in again within javascript to convert a number string into a number
format.
So coming up we're going to look at assignment operators That's coming up in the next lesson.